.\" Manpage for mogwai\-scheduled.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the Mogwai package.
.TH man 8 "12 Dec 2017" "1.0" "mogwai\-scheduled man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
mogwai\-scheduled — Download Scheduling Daemon
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-scheduled [\-a \fPbus\-address\fB]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP is a scheduler for large downloads. It receives requests
for starting downloads from various client programs, schedules them according
to current bandwidth and cost limitations, and notifies the client programs when
to download (and how much to download). It is up to each client program to
decide what a ‘large’ download is, and whether it would benefit from scheduling
with \fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP.
.PP
\fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP is designed to be run by \fBsystemd\fP(1), being
D\-Bus activated. There should be no need to run \fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP
manually. Use \fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP(8) to schedule downloads from the
command line.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.IX Header "OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-\-bus\-address=\fP"
Address of a D\-Bus message bus to connect to. This is intended for debugging
use only. (Default: The system bus.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-t\fP, \fB\-\-inactivity\-timeout=\fP"
Inactivity timeout (in milliseconds) to wait before exiting the service if no
scheduling requests have been made during that period. If set to \fB0\fP, the
timeout is disabled and the service will run indefinitely. (Default: 30 seconds.)
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP supports the standard GLib environment variables for
debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP may return one of several error codes if it encounters
problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The scheduler ran, responded to zero or more requests, and
then exited due to being explicitly closed, or timing out due to finishing all
requests.
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
An invalid option was passed to \fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP on startup.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
The D\-Bus name for \fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP was not available.
.\"
.IP "3" 4
.IX Item "3"
\fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP was run in an inappropriate environment, for example
as the root user.
.\"
.SH "FILES"
.IX Header "FILES"
.\"
.IP \fI/lib/systemd/system/mogwai\-scheduled.service\fP 4
.IX Item "/lib/systemd/system/mogwai\-scheduled.service"
\fBsystemd\fP(1) service file which specifies the runtime environment for
\fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP. See \fBsystemd.service\fP(5).
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP(8),
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pwithnall/mogwai\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2017, 2018 Endless Mobile, Inc.

