.\" Manpage for mogwai\-schedule\-client.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the Mogwai package.
.TH man 8 "09 Jan 2018" "1.0" "mogwai\-schedule\-client man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
mogwai\-schedule\-client — Download Scheduling Utility
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-schedule\-client download [\-a \fPbus\-address\fB] [\-q] [\-p \fPpriority\fB] [\-r] \fPURI\fB \fPOUTPUT-FILENAME\fB
.PP
\fBmogwai\-schedule\-client monitor [\-a \fPbus\-address\fB] [\-q]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP is a utility for scheduling and downloading large
files. It communicates with \fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP(8) to work out when to start
downloading the given file in order to avoid bandwidth charges. That might be
as soon as \fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP is started, or it might be hours
later; the client blocks until the download is started and complete.
.PP
Its first argument is a command to run. Currently, the only supported commands
are \fBdownload\fP and \fBmonitor\fP.
.\"
.SH \fBdownload\fP OPTIONS
.IX Header "download OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-\-bus\-address=\fP"
Address of a D\-Bus message bus to connect to. This is intended for debugging
use only. (Default: The system bus.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Only output error messages, and no informational messages, as the download
progresses. (Default: Output informational messages.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-p\fP, \fB\-\-priority=\fP"
Priority to apply to this download relative to other downloads in the same
process. As only one download can happen per \fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP
instance, this is a no-op. Higher numeric values indicate greater importance,
and zero is the lowest priority. (Default: Zero.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-r\fP, \fB\-\-resumable\fP"
Indicate the download may be paused and resumed by the download scheduler as its
scheduling algorithm permits. (Default: Download is not resumable.)
.\"
.SH \fBmonitor\fP OPTIONS
.IX Header "monitor OPTIONS"
.\"
.IP "\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-\-bus\-address=\fP"
Address of a D\-Bus message bus to connect to. This is intended for debugging
use only. (Default: The system bus.)
.\"
.IP "\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP"
Only output error messages and signal notifications, and no informational
messages, as monitoring happens. (Default: Output informational messages.)
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP supports the standard GLib environment variables
for debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP may return one of several error codes if it
encounters problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The utility ran, downloaded the file, and saved it to the
output file.
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
An invalid option was passed to \fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP on startup.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
\fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP could not connect to the D-Bus system bus.
.\"
.IP "3" 4
.IX Item "3"
\fBmogwai\-schedule\-client\fP encountered an error while downloading the file
or writing to the output file.
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IX Header "SEE ALSO"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-scheduled\fP(8),
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://support.endlessm.com/\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2018 Endless Mobile, Inc.

