.\" Manpage for mogwai\-tariff.
.\" Documentation is under the same licence as the Mogwai package.
.TH man 8 "26 Jan 2018" "1.0" "mogwai\-tariff man page"
.\"
.SH NAME
.IX Header "NAME"
mogwai\-tariff — Network Connection Tariff Utility
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-tariff build \fPTARIFF\fB \fPNAME\fB \fPSTART\fB \fPEND\fB \fPREPEAT\-TYPE\fB \fPREPEAT\-PERIOD\fB \fPCAPACITY\-LIMIT\fB \fP[\fB…\fP]\fB
.PP
\fBmogwai\-tariff dump \fPTARIFF\fB
.PP
\fBmogwai\-tariff lookup \fPTARIFF\fB \fPLOOKUP\-TIME\fB
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-tariff\fP is a utility for building and inspecting network connection
tariff descriptions. A tariff is a series of one or more periods where certain
properties and limits apply to the given network connection, such as having a
capacity limit on the amount which is allowed to be downloaded during that
period.
.PP
This utility supports three modes: \fBbuild\fP, \fBdump\fP and \fBlookup\fP.
\fBbuild\fP allows a new tariff description file to be created; \fBdump\fP
prints out the contents of an existing tariff file; and \fBlookup\fP finds the
period in an existing tariff file which applies to the given date/time.
.PP
The periods in a tariff may be stacked, in the sense that one period may start
and end within another. The shortest period which contains a given date/time is
the one whose properties apply to that date/time. Two periods must not have the
same start and end times, and must not partially overlap. Periods may be
disjoint.
.PP
A period may recur. Its start and end times give the first occurrence, and
subsequent occurrences may happen periodically afterwards. For example, once
every 5 days, or once every month. Recurrences currently continue forever.
.\"
.SH \fBbuild\fP MODE
.IX Header "build MODE"
.\"
The \fBTARIFF\fP and \fBNAME\fP arguments apply to the whole tariff. The
\fBSTART\fP through to \fBCAPACITY\-LIMIT\fP arguments specify a single period
in the tariff. At least one period has to be specified; additional periods may
be added to the tariff by specifying their properties afterwards.
.\"
.IP "\fBTARIFF\fP"
Path to the tariff file to write to.
.\"
.IP "\fBNAME\fP"
Identifying name for the new tariff. This must be valid UTF-8, and cannot
contain forward or backward slashes.
.\"
.IP "\fBSTART\fP"
ISO 8601 formatted date/time when the period starts (inclusive).
.\"
.IP "\fBEND\fP"
ISO 8601 formatted date/time when the period ends (exclusive).
.\"
.IP "\fBREPEAT\-TYPE\fP"
The unit used to calculate repeats. One of: \fBnone\fP, \fBhour\fP, \fBday\fP,
\fBweek\fP, \fBmonth\fP, or \fByear\fP.
.\"
.IP "\fBREPEAT\-PERIOD\fP"
The number of \fBREPEAT\-TYPE\fP units which pass between recurrences of this
period.
.\"
.IP "\fBCAPACITY\-LIMIT\fP"
The limit on the amount of data which can be downloaded during each recurrence
of this period, in bytes. If the limit is \fB0\fP, no data can be downloaded.
This may be \fBunlimited\fP to set no limit.
.\"
.SH \fBdump\fP MODE
.IX Header "dump MODE"
.\"
This takes a single argument, which is the path to the tariff file to load. It
will print out all the properties and periods in the file.
.\"
.SH \fBlookup\fP MODE
.IX Header "lookup MODE"
.\"
This takes the path to a tariff file, and a date/time to look up in it. The
period whose properties apply to the \fBLOOKUP\-TIME\fP will be printed. If no
period matches, an error message will be printed and the program will exit with
exit status 2.
.\"
.IP "\fBTARIFF\fP"
Path to the tariff file to load.
.\"
.IP "\fBLOOKUP\-TIME\fP"
ISO 8601 formatted date/time to look up.
.\"
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.IX Header "ENVIRONMENT"
.\"
\fPmogwai\-tariff\fP supports the standard GLib environment variables for
debugging. These variables are \fBnot\fP intended to be used in production:
.\"
.IP \fI$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG\fP 4
.IX Item "$G_MESSAGES_DEBUG"
This variable can contain one or more debug domain names to display debug output
for. The value \fIall\fP will enable all debug output. The default is for no
debug output to be enabled.
.\"
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.IX Header "EXIT STATUS"
.\"
\fBmogwai\-tariff\fP may return one of several error codes if it encounters
problems.
.\"
.IP "0" 4
.IX Item "0"
No problems occurred. The utility ran, and loaded or created the tariff file OK.
If in \fBlookup\fP mode, a period was found for the given date/time.
.\"
.IP "1" 4
.IX Item "1"
An invalid option was passed to \fBmogwai\-tariff\fP on startup.
.\"
.IP "2" 4
.IX Item "2"
In \fBlookup\fP mode, a period could not be found for the given date/time.
.\"
.IP "3" 4
.IX Item "3"
\fBmogwai\-tariff\fP encountered an error while interacting with a tariff file.
.\"
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.IX Header "EXAMPLES"
.\"
mogwai\-tariff build ./path/to/tariff0 "My first tariff" \\
.br
  2017\-01\-01T00:00:00Z 2018\-01\-01T00:00:00Z year 2 15000000
.PP
mogwai\-tariff build ./path/to/tariff1 "A more complex tariff" \\
.br
  2017\-01\-01T00:00:00Z 2018\-01\-01T00:00:00Z none 0 unlimited \\
.br
  2017\-01\-02T00:00:00Z 2017\-01\-02T05:00:00Z day 1 2000000
.PP
mogwai\-tariff dump ./path/to/tariff0
.PP
mogwai\-tariff lookup ./path/to/tariff0 2017\-01\-01T01:00:00Z
.br
mogwai\-tariff lookup ./path/to/tariff0 2000\-01\-05T00:00:05Z
.\"
.SH BUGS
.IX Header "BUGS"
.\"
Any bugs which are found should be reported on the project website:
.br
\fIhttps://gitlab.freedesktop.org/pwithnall/mogwai\fP
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.IX Header "AUTHOR"
.\"
Endless Mobile, Inc.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"
.\"
Copyright © 2018 Endless Mobile, Inc.
